[MUSIC]
>> Mike: We're gonna talk about templates,
so we're diving into one of these flavors
of objects, and this is the first one
that I'm choosing to talk to you guys
about.
>> Mike: So,
who's seen something like this before,
right?
Handlebars has been used for quite
a while outside the context of Ember,
and essentially what it does
is it allows you to define
some dynamic piece of HTML where you
can insert control flow structures,
and you can insert data
to be populated later.
Essentially, you can compile
this into something, and
then at runtime you can populate it
with data and turn it into HTML,
so Handlebars, although multiple
different multiple templating
engines can be used with Ember,
Handlebars is what it ships with.
It's the default.
You can think of it as a superset of HTML,
all valid HTML is also valid Handlebars,
and the way to think of
this is that a template
is rendered in a particular context.
When I say context, I mean that we
have to get first name and last name
from somewhere, and so we have to pass
essentially some data, some object.
You can think of this almost as like
a closure where you have access
to particular variables and
a particular scope, and
that is what the template
uses to populate itself.
When we talk about data binding,
this is a big part of it, and
the idea in frameworks like Ember,
and Angular and React, in fact,
there's an effort to basically define
what we want our HTML to look like.
Then, step away and
basically manipulate data,
manipulate objects that a template
is bound to, and we expect the HTML
on the screen to change,
so this is an effort to
take away this common problem we have
of keeping HTML and our data in sync.
Which, if you guys have been writing code
long enough, then remember that the jQuery
Widget Day is where you're finding a dime
element and updating it explicitly.
A lot of spaghetti code we get rid
of there, so to give you an idea,
I mentioned that Handlebars
templates are compiled.
I'm gonna show you what a compiled
template looks like in a second and
resist the urge to shriek out
because it's a little ugly, and
completely hidden from you.
But, I do want to talk about
this word HTMLBars, so
up until Version 110 of the framework,
Ember used Handlebars out-of-the-box.
Essentially what Handlebars is,
fancy string incantination.
At that point, you set enter HTML
= to something under the hood,
and things get populated.
This is very slow in a lot of browsers, so
what HTMLBar changes is we're
actually constructing dom objects.
We're constructing a document fragment,
which is inserted into the dom.
This is a lot faster, so
this is a compiled template, and I'm
gonna zoom in here, and we can see that,
if we go back,
just looking at Hello Karma, it's wrong.
We can see that those are, that's
the beginning of our string here, right?
But all we're doing is
using the down api here and
construct the elements and ultimately.
Building little hierarchy,
and then inserting them.
So, what I want you guys to understand
is that this is done at build time.
You're translating your HTML+ syntax Into
a JavaScript module like
this at build time.
So all we have to do at
run time is evaluate this.
And there are potentially huge performance
gains that we can see in the future
because here we have knowledge of exactly
what piece of a template has to change.
Because it's connected to this variable.
We at build time have
that information about
what things potentially could change
as the result of which data changing.
Which potentially could give us a lot of.
It could make things
even faster than React.
Which My understanding is they are forced
to re-render something entirely because
at build time they don't necessarily know
exactly what html could change as a result
of a particular piece of data changing.
>> Mike: So,
I mentioned this concept
of handlebars helpers.
Here's an example of one.
It's a simple conditional here and
you can,
I mean it's pretty self explanatory here.
If used in line the first parameter is
some boolean value and then we have it
something to spit out if it's true and
something to spit out if it's false.
You can also use block form, block syntax,
which is starting with a hashtag and
then closing with the slash.
And so, on the lower left here you can see
you can make an if-else in a way that is
pretty easy to read and pretty similar
to the way we structure A JavaScript
control flow of the same thing.
There's also unless,
which is just the inverse.
>> Mike: An important thing to
note is that, you may be asking yourself
why don't we just say, if not is dog?
There's a limited amount of
logic that you can put into
the handlebars files themselves.
And in this case, we can't really evaluate
arithmetic or logical statements.
So in this case, unless is the way to go.
Rather than trying to make
a not operator of some kind.
When you start writing your own
handlebars helpers, that is where you can
start customizing the expressive
language you can use in a template.
So here's an example of iteration, and
we're gonna use this when we start coding.
This is a very very very common
handlebars helper to use On
the top we're iterating over a list, and
we just say each and
then the name of the list property itself,
and then we get a local variable that
we can use within the body of each.
So you can see we're gonna print
out my list item You know,
in an LI element iterating over.
Also this is an often
overlooked feature of each.
It gives you the ability to use else
to have some template for the empty
case where there's nothing in the list.
>> Speaker 2: People
are asking about SEO and if there's
a decent story about number 2 and
pre rendering.
>> Mike: SEO
is less of a problem than
most people think, and
this is because Google's Crawler
now executes JavaScript.
There was an SEO problem with
single page apps before this.
And when we fire up our app,
when we get started
you'll see that the index.HTML we
start with is basically empty.
And if you don't run JavaScript
that's what you're going to see.
And that sucks for SEM Now,
single page apps will get picked up.
In addition to that, there's this
concept of server-side rendering.
Which essentially is running
Ember in a node.js server.
And spitting out the initial view.
Instead of starting
with an empty template,
you start out with Some
meaningful state and then
when the client downloads the JavaScript
and interprets it and starts it up.
Then you have the single
page app functioning.
So there are two solutions to that but
I guess the short answer to that
is because Google runs JavaScript,
single page apps get picked up just
fine.
>> Mike: Just
to give you guys a little check as
to where we're going with this,
I'm going to talk about the router.
This is the last thing I'm going to cover,
and
then we're gonna actually start coding.
My hope is about 20 more minutes,
and then we're going to dive
in.
>> Speaker 2: Here's
a question on iteration.
>> Mike: Okay,
lets go back to iteration.
>> Speaker 2: They're asking,
does having a key on each iterator make
it faster to update the iterators?
For instance, react needs key,
angular Is benefited from track by.
>> Mike: I'm
not sure what a key means in this context.
So you can iterate over a primitive array,
not necessarily an array of objects.
In which case what I assume they
mean by key has no meaning.
I do see a question online so,
why build with Ember if you
can build with Ruby on Rails?
With a single page app,
you have to think of your app as being
a completely separate system component.
There are advantages to being able to
deploy your UI independent of your API.
Deploying an API is quite frankly a pain,
compared to
building and making available
a new set of static assets.
That's what we ultimately ship with
a single page app Piece of Job Script.
Piece of CSS.
A little HTML.
My advice for building,
which we will get into tomorrow,
is treat this as a separate app.
Were building against
the Get Hub API today.
This is going to be a completely
separate application.
There’s no reason to couple
things together if you
can get away with separating them.